Okay.
So now we want to give this the effect where it's the nav bar is transparent.
When we scroll down, then we get the background.
So what we'll do here is in our HTML, we're going to start off with the class of nav bar and top because
it's going to be transparent at the top, right?
So we'll go into our style and let's say class nav bar and if it has a class of top, then we're going
to set the background.
We're going to set the background to Transparent.
So if I save that and we go now we have a transparent background now it's going to stay transparent,
which we don't want.
We can't even see it if it goes over white, white background.
So we need to add a little bit of JavaScript.
So I'm going to put it right in the index HTML down at the bottom here.
So let's go.
It's right below the footer, right above the body tag and let's put in script tags.
So I'm not going to explain, explain this front to back because this is not a JavaScript course.
You guys can just copy this if you want, but I'll explain it briefly.
So I'm going to grab the nav bar and put it into a JavaScript variable called NAV Bar.
And we do that with document dot get element by DX and that nav bar div has an ID of nav bar.
So I'm just going to grab that.
I'm also going to initialize actually.
No, we'll just we'll do this for now.
So then we want to take window dot on scroll, which is an event.
So we're saying basically when we start scrolling then we want to run a function and then we want to
check where we are on the page in terms of scrolling so we can say if the window dot and then page y
offset because we want to check where we are on the Y axis, which is the vertical axis, if that is
greater than 100.
So if we scroll down past 100 pixels, then let's take our nav bar and for the class list.
So basically the class lists, we're going to go ahead and remove the class of top.
And remember, the class of top is where we make the the transparent background.
So we're going to remove that else.
So if we're basically above 100, so for less than 100, then we're going to take the nav bar and we're
going to take the class list property and the add function.
So basically we can add a class here, we're going to add top back.
So just this code here should give us that effect.
So you'll see as soon as I scroll down past 100, then we get that background.
Now I'm going to take it a step further and give it this bounce effect.
And we're doing we're going to do that using the transform property along with Translate.
And I haven't explained that yet.
So this might be a little confusing.
I do get into this later on in the course, so you don't have to do this if you don't want to.
But I will show you how I did that.
So I'm going to go back to my JavaScript here and I'm going to initialize a variable here called scrolled
and set it to false.
So basically what this means is we haven't started scrolling yet.
And then down here after we go ahead and we remove the top class and make it so it has a background,
we're going to say if not scrolled, then we want to set the nav bar style because we can set direct
CSS properties from here.
We're going to set the transform and we're going to set that to on we're going to set that to translate
why and what translate why is it it does is it moves things along the Y axis.
So up and down, we're going to set that to -70 pixels so that it gets basically gets pulled up.
So let's see if we can demonstrate this.
Yeah.
So when I go down and I hit that 100, it goes up.
I see that it just, I mean, it just kind of disappears actually, because we don't have a transition
where it's going up slowly.
So if we want it to go up slowly, we can add a transition, which is also something I haven't gotten
into yet, but we are going to dive into this stuff later.
So in our stylesheet on our nav bar here, I'm going to add a transition, say transition of 1/2 and
let's do ease in.
Actually.
Is that what I want to do?
Yeah, we don't even need.
Actually, let's do a half a second.
Let's just say transition 0.5 seconds.
And I'm going to explain, like I said later on, I'll explain this stuff.
This is just kind of a bonus that I figured I'd add on.
So now when I scroll down, see that how it goes up smoothly, that's because I added that transition.
So it's getting it's going up -70 pixels.
Remember, the height is 70 pixels.
So now it's going up and it's disappearing.
Now let's go back to our JavaScript.
So it went it went up 70 pixels.
Now we want to wait a very short amount of time, like 200 milliseconds, and then bring it back down
by setting translate why back to zero?
So we can do that using a function called set timeout.
So set timeout actually takes in a function and then it takes as a second parameter.
The time that we want to wait to run this function, which will be 200 milliseconds and all I want to
do is set this back to zero, which will put it in its original position.
And then I'm just going to set that scrolled value to true because we've already scrolled down.
Else then we're still going to do the same thing, but we're going to set scrolled to false.
And if you like this kind of stuff, I would definitely recommend my 20 projects course.
We do stuff like this.
So now let's go ahead and scroll.
And you can see that what happens is when we hit 100, we get the background.
Also, it translates on the Y axis up into 200 milliseconds later, which is very quick.
It comes back down because we set it back to translate zero, right?
And when we get to the transform, translate and transition stuff later on, it'll make more sense,
even though it might not make much sense now.
But that gives us that effect now for the smooth scrolling, because right now it just kind of pops
down to the area.
I'm going to use a jQuery solution, so we're going to just go to let's search for jQuery seed.
N Now we could download jQuery and include it in our project, but I'm just going to use a N meaning
that we're going to load it from their content delivery network.
So let's grab the minified version so we can just copy this script tag right here and let's put that
in our HTML.
So we want to go above our custom script and just paste that in.
So that'll bring in jQuery and then I'm just going to paste in this smooth scrolling block of jQuery.
So I'm going to go under my custom window, scroll here and paste this in.
I should have auto format enabled.
Let me just check something real quick.
Let's say format on save.
I thought I had that enabled.
There you go.
All right.
So that fixed how that's formatted.
So basically we're just grabbing the nav bar and when we click any link in it, it's going to look at
the link, it's going to look at the hash.
So, you know how we have hash about hash home and it's going to scroll to that and it's also going
to go a little bit above it so that the fixed nav bar doesn't cover it.
So let's try this out.
We're going to go back to our home page here.
Let's click a boat and now you'll see it will go down to that section and it doesn't cover it like like
it did before because we set it to be 100 pixels above where it's actually supposed to go.
So I mean, that's how we implemented how I implemented that.
Those effects for the nav bar, there's a ton of other ways.
I mean, there's other libraries you could use without jQuery, but this is a really simple solution.
So if you want to add this to your other your blog page and stuff, because right now if we go to blog,
we don't have that functionality.
We don't want the smooth scrolling because none of these point to anything else on the page.
We just want the, you know, the effect, the transparency effect.
So to implement that, we would just go to our blog, HTML and add top add the top class to our nav
bar.
Let's add it on the post page as well.
So where are we now, bar?
Let's add top and then we just want that little bit of JavaScript right here.
So we don't want the jQuery stuff, we just want this.
So blog HTML, we'll go down to the bottom and.
Put in our script, paste that in and then post.
And of course you can put this in a different file if you want.
So script and paste that in.
So now that should work.
If we go to blog, you see it's transparent at the top and then we get that if we go to the Post page,
same thing.
All right.
So I think we're pretty much there.
The last thing to do is the lightbox.
Now, this is we're actually going to implement a library called LightBox, too.
So it's this right here.
So here's some examples.
Let's see.
So we're going to have to download it.
So if we go to the GitHub.
Let's grab right here.
It says clone or download.
We're going to download the zip and let's open that up.
So LightBox to Dev and there's some stuff we need to bring over to our projects.
So I'm going to just open up my project if I can find it.
So here's our project Edge ledger and we're going to take inside of DIST we need this stuff here so
in CSS, in our CSS folder, let's bring over light box mini CSS.
So we'll grab the minified version and then let's see, we're going to create a new folder called JS.
And in this JS folder we just need to grab, let's see.
And this does require jQuery as well.
So we're going to grab the minified version here of LightBox.
That should be all we need.
We don't need this stuff here.
We already have jQuery included.
Now there are some images to scroll through and stuff like that, the X image.
So we're going to put that right in these right in our image folder.
And then we need to include the script and the CSS in our index HTML.
So let's go back into our index HTML and we only need to do this on the home page because we're not
using this anywhere else.
So up at the top here, let's add another CSS reference and this is going to go to CSS slash LightBox
Min dot CSS.
And then for the JavaScript, let's go all the way down to the bottom.
So let's see.
We have our custom, we have jQuery and then we have our custom script.
We're going to want to put this right after the jQuery reference.
So right here, let's say script, colon source and we want to point to JS, Slash and then LightBox
Min JS.
All right.
Now, to implement this, we actually have to do some stuff to the cases because that's where we want
to use this.
So we need to wrap these cases in in links because we need to point to the actual image.
So this first image here, let's put a link and let's see, how do we want to do this?
We don't need any classes or anything, but we need to point to the actual image for one.
So we'll just grab this.
And let's put this image one inside this link to image one.
And then we just need to add a couple attributes.
So we want to say data dash light box and we're going to set this to cases which is like the category.
So if you want to be able to scroll through all the images, they all have to have the same value for
data.
LightBox And then if you want some text, we can say data dash title and let's just grab this text here
and put that inside here.
So we have this link going to the image with these two attributes around the image.
So I'm just going to save this and let's try it out for the first one.
So if we go down to cases and we click on this, there we go.
Now we'll have to do the same thing for the rest of the images.
So what I'll do is copy this link, at least the first a tag, go to the next image paste that we want
to make sure we add the ending a tag change this to to because we want to obviously point to the same
image and we can leave this.
We want to leave the same value for that.
And I mean, you could put different text here if you want, but it really doesn't matter.
It's not real content.
So we'll do the same here.
This is going to be three and we'll wrap that next one, paste that in.
This is going to be four.
Make sure you put the ending tag on.
Then we have cases five and a tag.
Oops, this will be six.
Just make sure you point to the same image that you're surrounding the link and the image.
Make sure they match seven a tag and then the last one will be eight.
There we go.
So we'll save that.
And now you should be able to click on all of these.
You should also be able to scroll through because they all have the same data.
LightBox equals cases and that's what puts them all in the same group.
All right, so that's it.
We're done.
And hopefully you enjoyed this project.
I know there was some stuff that, you know, in this in this last section that we didn't go over yet.
But you'll learn more about stuff like Transform and, you know, pseudo selectors and stuff like that
later on.
All right.
That's it.
Thanks.
I will see you in the next section.